docs(vitals) update and clarify prometheus vitals documentation (#1760)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/enterprise/1.3-x/admin-api/vitals/vitals-prometheus-strategy.md

title: Kong Vitals with Prometheus
---

This document covers integrating Kong Vitals with a new or existing Prometheus

> time series server or cluster. Leveraging a time series database for Vitals data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
time-series server or cluster. Leveraging a time-series database for Vitals data
```

can improve request and Vitals performance in very-high traffic Kong Enterprise
clusters (such as environments handling tens or hundreds of thousands of
requests per second), without placing addition write load on the database
backing the Kong cluster.

For using Vitals with a database as the backend (i.e. PostgreSQL, Cassandra), 
please refer to [Kong Vitals](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/vitals/).

## Lifecycle Overview

Kong Vitals integrates with Prometheus via an intermediary data exporter, the [Prometheus StatsD exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter).

> This allows Kong to efficiently ship Vitals metrics to an outside process where data points

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration allows Kong to efficiently ship Vitals metrics to an outside process where data points
```

can be aggregated and made available for consumption by Prometheus, without impeding performance
within the Kong proxy itself. In this design, Kong writes Vitals metrics to the StatsD exporter
as [StatsD metrics](https://github.com/statsd/statsd/blob/master/docs/metric_types.md). Prometheus

> scrapes this exporter as it would any other endpoint. Kong then queries prometheus to retrive and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
scrapes this exporter as it would any other endpoint. Kong then queries Prometheus to retrieve and
```

display Vitals data via the API and Kong Manager. Prometheus does not ever directly scrape the Kong
nodes for time series data. A trivialized workflow looks as follows:

![Single Node Example Data Flow](/assets/images/docs/ee/vitals-prometheus/single.png)

It is not uncommon to separate Kong functionality amongst a cluster of nodes. For example,
one or more nodes serve only proxy traffic, while another node is responsible for serving the
Kong Admin API and Kong Manager. In this case, the node responsible for proxy traffic writes
the data to a StatsD exporter, and the node responsible for Admin API reads from Prometheus:

![Multi Node Example Data Flow](/assets/images/docs/ee/vitals-prometheus/read-write.png)

> In either case, the StatsD exporter process can be run either as a standalone process/container,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In either case, the StatsD exporter process can be run either as a standalone process/container
```

or as a sidecar/adjacent process within a VM. Note that in high-traffic environments, data aggregation

> within the StatsD exporter process can cause significant CPU usage; in such cases it is recommended to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
within the StatsD exporter process can cause significant CPU usage. In such cases, we recommend to
```

                    --statsd.unixsocket-umask="777" 
```

## Exported Metrics

With the above configuration, the Prometheus StatsD exporter will make available all
metrics as provided by the [standard Vitals configuration](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/vitals/#vitals-metrics).

> Additionally, the exporter process makes available the default metrics exposed by the [Golang

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the exporter process provides access to the default metrics exposed by the [Golang
```

> Prometheus client library](https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/go-application/). These are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prometheus client library](https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/go-application/). These metric names
```

> prefixed with `go_` and `process_` metric names. These data points are related specifically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
include the `go_` and `process_` prefixes. These data points are related specifically
```
